# Week 5

## Notes

### Usable Authentication and Passwords

- **Password Attacks**
	- Human
	- Brute Force
	- Common Word
	- Dictionary Words
- **Conclusions**
	- Password systems would be more secure if passwords were more usable
		- Human Reasons
		- Computational Reasons

### Two-Factor Authentication

- **Two-factor Authentication (2FA)**
	- Password + one time unique code
	- Generated by:
		- Device
		- Email
		- Text
		- App
- **Security of 2FA?**
	- More secure
	- Stops most hacking attacks
	- Users perceive it as more secure
- **Research says:**
	- Speed: slower
	- User preference
		- Felt less usable
		- Less convenient
		- Harder to use

**My comment:**

Nowadays 2FA is simply the **de facto standard** for user authentication. If users find it less usable, just force them to use it. Refusing to use 2FA is a dumb idea. These people will learn a lesson once they are attacked by malicious hackers.

### Biometric Authentication

- **Biometric authentication**
	- **Voice recognition**
		- Speed: medium
		- Efficiency: medium
		- Learnability: easy
		- Memorability: easy
	- **Facial recognition**
		- Speed: medium
		- Efficiency: medium
		- Learnability: easy
		- Memorability: easy
	- **Fingerprint recognition**
		- Speed: fast
		- Efficiency: good
		- Learnability: easy
		- Memorability: easy
- **Analyzing security**
	- Who can access the device?
	- How easily can they replicate the biometric input?
- **Conclusion**
	- Biometrics are easy and relatively secure
	- Common on mobile devices but work anywhere
	- Compare usability

### Gesture-based Authentication

- **Benefits**
	- Gestures users enjoy (easy, fun, etc.) tend to be more secure
	- Users prefer gestures to passwords
	- Faster than passwords, less error prone
	
## Week 5 Quiz - Usable Authentication

### Question 1

What type of attack would be most effective / fastest if the user's password is "hello"?

**Answer:**

- [ ] Brute Force
- [x] Common Word
- [ ] Crack
- [ ] Dictionary

### Question 2

Which of the following passwords is most secure?

**Answer:**

- [ ] As34df
- [x] sometimes extra student clever
- [ ] d0gz&c4Ts
- [ ] abc123

### Question 3

True or False: Two factor authentication improves the security and usability of a system.

**Answer:**

- [ ] True
- [x] False

### Question 4

Which of the following is not a type of biometric authentication?

**Answer:**

- [ ] Voice analysis
- [x] PIN code
- [ ] Facial recognition
- [ ] Free gesture

### Question 5

Which of the following is NOT a method for obtaining a second factor authentication code?

**Answer:**

- [ ] Off a device that generates codes
- [ ] In a text message
- [x] Choosing a memorable year in one's life
- [ ] From an app designed to create codes

### Question 6

Which of the following is not a type of gesture based authentication?

**Answer:**

- [x] Typing in a numeric code on a keypad
- [ ] Swiping multiple fingers in a line or shape
- [ ] Connecting dots on a grid
- [ ] Drawing a signature on a touch screen

### Question 7

In the paper on smudge attacks, on which phone was it easiest to find password information?

**Answer:**

- [ ] Phone where the password was entered with a light touch
- [x] Phone that touched the face
- [ ] Clean screen phone with a normal touch

### Question 8

Which of the following improves security of a traditional password system?

**Answer:**

- [ ] Automatically changing users' passwords every six months.
- [ ] Requiring users to reset their passwords once a week.
- [ ] Requiring users to enter their password twice when they log in.
- [x] Limitations on the number of incorrect logins in a fixed time frame.

### Question 9

True or false: fingerprint recognition is generally faster than password entry for authentication.

**Answer:**

- [x] True
- [ ] False

### Question 10

Which of the following are measures of usability for authentication systems ?

**Answer:**

- [x] Speed
- [x] How easy it is to learn
- [x] Likelihood of error
- [ ] Security